<My reply to John>

Dear John,

We just finished the revision of our paper "Collaborative Software
Development Using R-Forge". I'm sending you attached the tex file and
the pdf of the paper. 

The major improvements are:

- We made the paper more accessible to readers not familiar with
  version-control. In particular we added pointers to certain sections
  in the user's manual, commented on SCM-specific terms 
- We added three screenshots of web sites on R-Forge. Several pointers in the
  text refer to these screenshots, so that the reader has the
  oppurtunity to visualize the instructions provided in the text.

Thank you for your suggestion to add these screenshots. We were not
sure initially if we shall include them or not. 
I hope 6 pages instead of 4 still fits with your plans for the next
issue. It makes the paper more colorful and more attractive to
read. 

Attached you find our replies to the comments of the reviewer.

Thanks a lot for your effort in editing the R Journal.

Best,
Stefan

<attachment>

> for the whole paper: please re-read you paper and try to guesstimate. 
> Will a novice in source code management understand the main parts?

We made some parts clearer by either defining SCM/SVN specific terms
more precisely (thanks to a colleague of us not familiar with
version-control helping us to clarify some parts), see e.g., p. 2
sec. paragraph or by adding pointers to certain sections in the user's
manual (e.g., p.4. "SCM and R Packages" end of first paragraph/end of
second paragraph").

> p. 1, before "Source Code Management": "high demand for centralized 
> source code management tools and for releasing [...] frequently among 
> the R community" - Is it possible to quantify this statement more 
> precisely? How many downloads? I.e., is it really used for deployment? 
> Are there other users (except for the developers) that make use of the 
> repositories?

We can savely say that R-Forge is used for deployment. First, by considering
the support emails, we see that quite a lot of people make use of
package builds. They ask e.g., questions like: "What shall I do
to use R-Forge for my lectures so that students can download the
latest binaries of my package" or "How can I compile a mac binary
using your service and install it afterwards on my machine". Second, we
found out that more than 1500 package builds get downloaded every
week (partly direct R downloads and partly browser downloads). 

> p. 2, before "Release and Quality Management": Explain the difference 
> "Senior Developer" vs. "Junior Developer".

We pointed out similarities and differences between those roles more explicitely.

> p. 2,  paragraph starting with "First, ....": How frequently is 'R CMD 
> check' applied, i.e. how frequently are logs updated? Is it possible to 
> check on demand on all platforms?

We clarified this statement (we added 'at least once daily')
Checking and building on demand is not possible.

> p. 2, first paragraph in 2nd column: ... given a suer knows where to 
> report bugs... Do users check R-forge for bug repositories are do they 
> send bug reports to the authors/maintainers by looking into DESCRIPTION 
> files?

We can't say that for sure. From experience we'd say that bug trackers are
used rather sparely. Projects with a greater developer community are
more likely to use these features. For small projects the main work
flow is to directly contact the author in case of bugs or
requests. But this could be subject to change in the future. 

> p. 2, first item in "Additional features": "...R.project.org/)", remove 
> Last parenthesis  (or add a starting one)

We removed the parenthesis.

> p. 2-4 (How to Get Started): Can you please stress the "How to Get" ssh 
> keys and "How to Get" avn working a bit more detailed, at least in a way 
> that suggests to *really* read the corresponding user manual on R-Forge? 
> You may want to say hat it is not difficult, but that several steps are 
> required and people should not give up.

and

> p. 3, mid of column 2: "svn+ssh://" might be extremely cryptic for many 
> readers, perhaps invest a few more lines to explain it in more detail.

We invested a few more lines to explain svn+ssh and added pointers to
the user's manual. 

> p. 3, columns 1, very first item ("examine ...") seems not to be of high 
> interest (except for telling us this is a statistics journal ;-))

:-) We dropped this statement to shorten the section.

> p. 3, last paragraph before "Further Steps": What exactly happens on 
> "Submit this package to CRAN"? Is the recent tar.gz version submitted or 
> the version you have committed to the svn repository one second before?
> If the former: How can you submit the recent svn version that has been 
> updated seconds before? For how much time do you have to wait?

We rewrote that paragraph to make the process clearer. In particular
we pointed out that the latest nightly built package is going to be submitted
to CRAN.

> p. 4, column 1, item starting "The R package RForgeTools" as well as 
> cited Theuﬂl, 2008 reference:
> I cannot find any package called RForgeTools, neither in 
> http://R-Forge.R-Project.org/projects/sites nor in any R-Forge repository.

The corresponding SCM repository
(http://r-forge.r-project.org/projects/site/) was hidden for anonymous 
users. The project is now open to the public. The package can be
found on http://r-forge.r-project.org/R/?group_id=34.


Thank you for all your comments. They helped us to considerably
improve the paper.

Best regards,
Stefan Theussl and Achim Zeileis

</My reply to John>

<John Fox>

Dear Stefan and Achim,

I now have a review of your paper, appended below, and am happy to accept
the paper, pending its revision, for publication in The R Journal. I don't
think that it should be necessary to send the revised paper back to the
reviewer.

You'll notice that the reviewer makes several suggestions for revising the
paper, many of these aimed at making the paper more accessible to readers
not entirely familiar with version control. I think that this is an
important audience for the paper and I hope that you will move the paper in
this direction. I understand that doing so will make the paper longer and
see no problem in that.

I also have a small suggestion: At several points in the text you describe
web pages in the R-Forge site; of course, I'm familiar with R-Forge and can
easily visualize these pages, but I expect that readers unfamiliar with
R-Forge would follow the description more easily if you included "screen
shots" of one, two, or even three of these pages -- e.g., the R-Forge home
page, perhaps the packages tab for a project, and a user's "my page."

I hope that you can submit the revised paper in time to be included in the
next issue of The R Journal, which likely will be published in April or
early May. You paper will probably appear in a special section on the future
of R; we hope to have similar sections in all issues published this year and
to collect them at the end of year.

Thank you for your contribution to The R Journal.

John

</John Fox>



<anonymous reviewer>

Review of Collaborative Software Development Using R-Forge

This is a very important paper for the R community, because it describes a
framework that allows convenient collaboration on R package development. The
paper is easy to understand in most parts and quite short, so that we can
hope that many developers will join R forge for doing even more efficient
work.

Although I'd like to see the paper in R News / the R Journal, there are a
few things that could and should be improved:


- for the whole paper: please re-read you paper and try to guesstimate. 
Will a novice in source code management understand the main parts?

p. 1, before "Source Code Management": "high demand for centralized 
source code management tools and for releasing [...] frequently among 
the R community" - Is it possible to quantify this statement more 
precisely? How many downloads? I.e., is it really used for deployment? 
Are there other users (except for the developers) that make use of the 
repositories?

p. 2, before "Release and Quality Management": Explain the difference 
"Senior Developer" vs. "Junior Developer".

p. 2,  paragraph starting with "First, ....": How frequently is 'R CMD 
check' applied, i.e. how frequently are logs updated? Is it possible to 
check on demand on all platforms?

p. 2, first paragraph in 2nd column: ... given a suer knows where to 
report bugs... Do users check R-forge for bug repositories are do they 
send bug reports to the authors/maintainers by looking into DESCRIPTION 
files?

p. 2, first item in "Additional features": "...R.project.org/)", remove 
last parenthesis  (or add a starting one)

p. 2-4 (How to Get Started): Can you please stress the "How to Get" ssh 
keys and "How to Get" avn working a bit more detailed, at least in a way 
that suggests to *really* read the corresponding user manual on R-Forge? 
You may want to say hat it is not difficult, but that several steps are 
required and people should not give up.

p. 3, columns 1, very first item ("examine ...") seems not to be of high 
interest (except for telling us this is a statistics journal ;-))

p. 3, mid of column 2: "svn+ssh://" might be extremely cryptic for many 
readers, perhaps invest a few more lines to explain it in more detail.

p. 3, last paragraph before "Further Steps": What exactly happens on 
"Submit this package to CRAN"? Is the recent tar.gz version submitted or 
the version you have committed to the svn repository one second before?
If the former: How can you submit the recent svn version that has been 
updated seconds before? For how much time do you have to wait?

p. 4, column 1, item starting "The R package RForgeTools" as well as 
cited Theuﬂl, 2008 reference:
I cannot find any package called RForgeTools, neither in 
http://R-Forge.R-Project.org/projects/sites nor in any R-Forge repository.

</anonymous reviewer>
